# A-data-modelling-approach-for-medical-diagnosis-based-on-ML
**ABSTRACT:**
Data collected by healthcare organizations will be highly dimensional since each patient will have their own medication history. Therefore, prediction is a challenging task when dealing with such high-dimensional data. The purpose of this project is to create classifiers that could model the medical data. The study uses two sets of medical data: one set of data is related to HDD and the other is EID. For prediction, we have used some of the machine learning methods such as Naive Bayes,Decision Tree, Multilayer Perceptron, Random Forest, Support Vector Machine and , Decision Tree along with some Ensemble methods like Bagging and Voting that helps in increasing the model’s performance. For validating the classifier, both split and cross-validation techniques are used, and well-known evaluation measures for predictive models like accuracy, recall, precision,ROC and Fmeasure are considered. In this work, we analyzed the data in two stages. In the first stage, we make use of all the available features while in the second we select the features which have a positive correlation. Along with the traditional machine learning algorithms, the adopted approach for deep learning, particularly Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), is used to monitor the results. Better predictions are made in the second stage, according to the experimental findings. Additionally, research shows that split percentage creates better predictive models.
As a novelty, we have preprocessed the given datasets using z-score normalization to remove outliers. The technique GridSearchCV is implemented to find the best parameters that give better predictions for all the classifiers. In addition XGBoost, AdaBoost and ANN models are implemented to classify the data. Using 80- 20 splits in the second stage, XGBoost achieved the highest accuracy for the Eye Infection dataset and Heart Disease dataset.While in the first stage XGBoost achieved highest accuracy for Heart Disease Dataset and AdaBoost topped all the other algorithms for Eye Infection Dataset. Due to the quantity of the analyzed datasets, the CNN model performed poorly.On the other hand,ANN produced better results compared to CNN.

Keywords : Machine Learning , Deep Learning, NB, DT, MLP, RF, SVM, XGBoost, AdaBoost, CNN, ANN, Split Percentage, Cross Validation( K-fold).

**Results:**
For Modelling of Medical Data prediction, this study used a few Machine Learning Algorithms that includes DT, RF, MLP,NB,SVM XGBoost, AdaBoost. This comprises of two stages, (i) First stage and (ii) Second stage. In the first stage all the available attributes (features) are considered for making predictions while in the second stage only a few among the available attributes were taken into consideration for making predictions. The attributes were selected based on correlation values. This study uses two medical datasets, one is private Eye Infection Dataset and the other is from internet i.e Heart Disease. Additionally two ensemblers (Bagging and Voting) are used along with base learners. Both Cross Validation and Split Percentage approaches are used to train the proposed models. Evaluation Metrics are also used in order to evaluate the models.

According to the experimental findings, evaluated models performed better in the second stage than in the first stage. It also displayed an 80-20 split percentage, with the maximum accuracy being 98.45% for HDD and 99.36% for EID with XGBoost and AdaBoost, respectively in the first stage. Similarly for the first stage cross validation displayed accuracies of 96.9% and 98.86% for HDD and EID with XGBoost and AdaBoost respectively. The second stage findings were comparatively improved for 80-20 split, with the HDD and EID having the accuracies as 98.96% and 99.40% with XGBoost, respectively. With the maximum accuracy of 98.66% and 97.37% in the second stage for both datasets with XGBoost.Due to the quantity of the analyzed datasets, the CNN model performed badly.On the other hand,ANN produced better results compared to CNN.
